---
date: 2020-11-20
---

The tradition of harvest festivals is hardly unique to the US, but we have our
own peculiar take on it, even apart from the traditions of turkey and
cranberries and pumpkin pie.  As a kid in school, we learned about the myth of
"the first Thanksgiving," and even that version of the story involved the
survivors of an awful lot of death and disease.  Reading history as an adult,
the whole episode feels even grimmer and sadder.  In the early part of our
history as a country, the holiday was celebrated intermittently (e.g. Thomas
Jefferson, a deist, declined to declare a Thanksgiving holiday while he was
president).  It was Abraham Lincoln who declared Thanksgiving as a regular,
official holiday, in the middle of the US civil war; and the current date (the
last Thursday of November) was nailed down after a bitter fight between
Franklin Roosevelt and his political adversaries among the Republicans in the
midst of the Great Depression.

And now, we approach the Thanksgiving day as we reach the end game of a deeply
weird and unsettling semester in a year rife with tragedy.  I find it hard not
to feel sadness and anxiety about a lot of the current situation.  And yet, I’m
grateful: for the fact that all of you are still alive, for the continued
success of our local community in managing the epidemic, for the opportunity to
continue learning new things every day.  And I’m grateful for a day that I will
spend at home with my family without the pressures of lecture prep, meetings,
and getting the kids to their classes.

So while I wish you all success in your semi-finals and end-of-semester
projects, let me also wish you the vision and courage to try to help fix some
of the things that are wrong with the world, and also gratitude for the things
that are right.
