---
---

One of the things I remember from my pedagogy course in grad school is
Vygotsky’s idea of the “zone of proximal development” (зона ближайшего
развития) — the set of tasks that a learner cannot yet do unaided, but can
complete with appropriate guidance, the space between “I already know how to do
this” and “this is totally beyond me.”  Part of the idea of the ZPD is that
learners need to be challenged by things that are just at the edge of their
capabilities — or even just beyond their capabilities without help! — in order
to make the best progress.

None of you chose to go through a pandemic.  That’s just bad luck.  But you did
choose graduate school.  And even in normal times, as we get into the middle of
the semester, it’s easy to think “why did I agree to this?”  Classes are hard;
research progress feels slow; it seems like you’re struggling with things that
those around you are getting.  The first edges of the gray Ithaca winter don’t
help.  But you are not alone in any of this.  You made a choice to go into
graduate school, pursue mathematical research, live in the zone of proximal
development, and take on these challenges "not because they are easy, but
because they are hard.”

And remember that part of the idea of ZPD is that you’re tackling problems
where you might still need help, whether from an instructor or a peer or just a
reference book.  So talk to your advisors and talk to each other — and don’t
worry that your ideas might be half-baked!  The only way to get something to be
fully-baked is heat and patience.

