---
date: 2020-12-11
---

Well, you’ve survived the rolling ball of disaster that was the Fall 2020 semester.  It was deeply weird, upsetting, and unsettling, for me and for many of you.  It was not what I thought I was signing up for when I agreed to the role as director — and probably not what any of you thought you were signing up for when you decided to come here for graduate school!

And yet: amidst the struggle, I saw many of you grow.

I saw you grow technically.  Everything takes three times as long as it would in a normal year, but I kept seeing you learn new things — and I learned new things from many of you.  We asked you to suggest speakers for the colloquium, and there were some phenomenal choices.  I asked you to tell me about your research in late September, and you provided one of the most fascinating afternoons I had this year.  And despite the chaos of the year, when I talked to you — for twenty minutes at a time in scheduled meetings, for a few minutes after colloquium, for an A exam or setting up a committee — I mostly just got to enjoy thinking about math.

I also saw you grow as humans.  I saw you supporting each other.  I saw you caring.  I saw you challenging yourselves not only to pick up new technical skills, but also to think about the broader world in new ways.

Universities are funny places.  They are old, tradition-soaked, conservative to the point of being hide-bound.  We still celebrate our major events by donning medieval robes!  And yet, through our students, we are constantly reinvigorated, and our programs ever re-built.  As with anywhere else, the room to grow and rebuild is greatest when the world has conspired to tear down the old.  Well, here we are, at the end of what may be the most destructive year I’ve ever personally witnessed.  And here you are as well, continuing to build.

I am proud of all of you, the work you are doing, and the place you are building.

