---
---

No sermon today, but I did want to say a few words about Paul Steen, who passed
away unexpectedly one week ago.

In the first year that I was at Cornell, Paul gave one of the talks for the CAM
visit day.  I’d met him briefly before, but I remember that I got to talk to
him after his talk to the prospective students, because I thought the stuff he
was talking about sounded really cool.  I interacted with him several other
times in the first couple years about other CAM things, too.  He helped
organize the colloquium one year, gave the visit day colloquium another year,
and was always around for the field meetings, picnics, and events.  And I saw
him on proposal efforts, and at the SCAN seminar, and on student committees.
 We never did any research together, mostly just from timing; we shared a
number of interests.

Paul was at the top of his field, and was also very down-to-earth.  I never
knew him as anything but kind and cheerful.  He laughed easily.  I looked
forward to seeing him.  I found out about Paul’s death at the same time that I
was responding to an email from him.  He’d written on Aug 28 (two Fridays ago)
to say that he was glad to help out with CAM in whatever way he could, that he
was enthusiastic about the idea of a “SciML at Cornell” push, and that there
might be some eigenvalue problems that would be interesting to chat about (with
paper references!).

I am sad that I’ll never get the chance to explore those ideas with Paul.  I
think I would have enjoyed it.  But beyond his body of technical work, I think
he lived well, laughed often, and will be remembered fondly by many.  So he
leaves a great legacy in many senses, and I suppose that is all any of us can
hope for when we go.

