---
date: 2020-08-21
---

When I was a kid, I used to watch “The Red Green Show” and then “Red Dwarf” and
“Doctor Who” with my dad on Friday nights on our local public television
station.  Our reception was terrible, but it was a good excuse to laugh
together, and some things stuck with me.  One of those was from an episode of
“The Red Green Show” (a Canadian comedy), in which the main character is
explaining how to make some type of living space out of an old refrigerator.
 “Don’t measure too carefully before you cut,” he advises, “because you’re
going to need some cracks to get breathable air in!”

None of us are under much illusion that our long-term plans for this year will
unfold in exactly the way we hope.  There is too much uncertainty.  But even
the best of times have plenty of uncertainty to them.  As academics, we have
the privilege to think long thoughts, and to work on projects that might not
see fruition for several years.  But just because we are in a position to plan
things out for several years, that doesn’t mean that it will work out as we
expect.  And so...

For new students: grad school is a confusing place!  Plan to talk to faculty,
and to get involved in research.  But realize you may not end up working with
who you expect to, and you may find inspiration in a direction that you never
even knew existed before coming here.

For old students: with graduation no longer on the infinitely-far-off horizon,
you might well be worried about what comes next.  Network, make connections,
plan — and realize that eventually you’re rolling the dice.  Have an idea where
you want to go, but keep a broad awareness.  Applied mathematicians can go in
an unusually wide number of directions, inside academia and beyond.

For students in-between: plan your research, your papers, your A and B exams.
 And realize that it wouldn’t be research if we knew what we were doing, and
you will almost surely have to abandon a plan or two in order to make progress.

And for all of you — plan to be gentle with yourself and with each other this
fall.  Even if you sometimes fail in that plan, having made the plan in the
first place might remind you to breath, cope, and lean on your friends when you
need to.

