---
date: 2021-02-12
---

You are all getting mentoring of some sort, I hope.  At least, you should be.
But one of the things that I think about a lot in this weird year is whether
everyone is getting the type of mentoring that they need.  Do you need help
navigating courses?  Preparing for job talks?  Finding an advisor?  Starting
research?  Navigating your teaching?  In a normal semester, there would be a
fabric of informal interactions to help support these.  But for this academic
year, you may need to be more deliberate.
 
I’ve written more than once in this section that “you are your brothers’ (and
sisters’) keepers,” but you also all get to advocate for yourselves.  And one
part of that is finding a network of people who can help you with advice and
guidance.  If you think you are headed on to an academic career, you will want
several faculty to know you well – maybe even collaborate with you on research
– in order to have the letters that you need for your job applications.  But
even if you have no interest in academia, talking to lots of people about the
things you think they’re good at, and getting the perspective and advice you
need, can be one of the great pleasures of being a graduate student.
 
So: if you have a committee put together, find excuses to talk to your
committee members!  And if you’re still taking classes, go visit faculty office
hours in whatever form they may have!  Think a bit about what you want to know
or where you want guidance, and then go out and find it.
 
Some mentoring resources:
 
- [Rackham mentoring "quick tips"](https://rackham.umich.edu/downloads/cpp-qt-mentoring.pdf)
- [Rackham student mentoring handbook](https://rackham.umich.edu/downloads/student-mentoring-handbook.pdf)
- [IHE: Finding good mentors and mentoring](https://www.insidehighered.com/advice/2015/09/09/essay-finding-good-mentoring-advice-academic-careers)
- [How can we become better mentors and mentees?](https://naturemicrobiologycommunity.nature.com/posts/51088-how-can-we-become-better-mentors-mentees)

