---
date: 2021-11-12
---

I struggled with what to write here this week.  Between the return to standard
time and the ramp-up of homework and exams that inevitably happens around this
time of year, this was never going to be an easy week.  Bomb threats and police
pursuing a gunman, atop the ongoing strain of pandemic life, has only made
things harder.  Some of you are also teaching this semester, and dealing with
students who are processing this trauma in their own ways.  That can also be a
challenging exercise, particularly if you’re still processing some things
yourself.

What do I have to offer at times like this?  For this week, I think, I’d like
to offer three thoughts.

First is that sleep, diet, and exercise make a difference.  It’s hard to deal
with life with equanimity if you are tired from trying to pull all-nighters,
skipping meals (or eating poorly), or not moving around enough.  For those of
you who have spent most of your life in more southerly latitudes, be aware that
seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a real thing, and kicks in for a lot of
people as the days get shorter – there are strategies to deal with this,
including light therapy, but it helps to first recognize the issue:

<https://health.cornell.edu/sites/health/files/pdf-library/winter-blues.pdf>

Second, be reasonable with yourself.  Many of us treat ourselves differently
than we would treat others, and that often plays out as overly harsh
self-criticism.  I think it’s pretty normal to have moments where you feel like
you’re drowning and everyone else is doing better.  If we were completely
rational creatures, we could think ourselves out of such moments; but then, if
we were completely rational, we might not have those moments to start with!  If
you’re in such a patch and can recognize it in yourself, take a step back.
Take a few deep breaths, go for a walk to clear your head, talk to someone
else, have something to eat, do whatever it takes to help get yourself unstuck.
And then, yes, you can make a plan.  You can do this.

Third: you are your brothers’ keepers.  Support each other!  We say the
university is a community of scholars, and part of what community means is that
we watch out for each other in times of trouble.
