---
date: 2021-10-29
---

I haven’t sent a sermon in a while, and feel like I’m overdue.

So how about this one: none of us are mind readers.

We form more- or less-good mental models of each other through our
interactions, and maybe your model of your best friend is so rich and detailed
that you can predict their next sentences – but move away from those I know
well, and my mental model for most people in the world is cartoonishly bad, and
I’m guessing that the same is true for most of you.

What does this imply?  Well, I’ve always figured that it means the exclamation
“I have no idea why you’d think that!” should be read as a statement of fact
rather than a condemnation.  I have no idea why lots of people think what they
think, up until I start talking to them – and sometimes not even then.  But
even close to home, it implies that those around you might not know what is
going on with you, even if they should.
 

I’ve used this slot before to tell you all that you are each other’s keepers,
and that you shouldn’t feel shy about making sure those around you are OK.
That’s still true.  This week, I’m going to tell you the converse can also
true: if something is not right for you and you need help, consider reaching
out and saying something about it!  If I’m the right person to listen, I assure
you that I’d rather hear from you now that you are having a minor problem than
to hear from you in a month when it has turned into a major emergency.  But the
advice holds as well for reaching out to your advisors, your mentors, your
professors in classes.  Don’t assume we can somehow intuit your problems,
because most of us probably can’t, even though we’d like to help if we could.
Speak up!
