---
date: 2021-01-08
---

Faculty sometimes get reminders that natural or political catastrophe are
affecting some group of students, and maybe school work and deadlines are
justifiably less important to them at the moment than the safety and well-being
of their home and family.  Given that you are all spending at least a part of
your life here, insurrectionists storming the US Capitol with the encouragement
of sitting politicians is the type of political catastrophe that could
reasonably rattle any of us.  It has certainly rattled me — enough that it’s
hard to keep track of other stuff.

In normal times, I think any one of the elections in Georgia, or the no-charge
decision in Kenosha, or the continuing drumbeat of bad news about COVID and the
economy would be the dominant story of the first full week of a new year.  Or
maybe we would still be getting filler pieces about the psychology of sticking
to New Year’s resolutions, or analyses of the first days of the post-Brexit UK.
But while 2020 is over, we are still not in normal times.

For the most part, academics get the privilege of thinking long-term thoughts —
certainly much more so than many of our peers in business.  That doesn’t mean
we’re immune to short-term chaos.  If you’re having trouble focusing, be gentle
with yourself.  And, if you are able, turn off the news, take a walk, talk to a
friend, do the laundry, and remind yourself of the everyday.

I’m looking forward to seeing you all when classes start back up in February.
I hope to return to radio silence until late January, but of course will send a
note if things come up (hopefully related to Cornell logistics).  But I’m back
at it myself, and you know where to find me if you need anything.

