---
date: 2021-04-02
---

There are a lot of things I miss about being on campus: consulting my bookshelf, hallway conversations with students and colleagues, the little conversations that happen before and after classes and colloquiua – the list goes on.  One thing I miss for all of us, though, is what we learn from watching our very human peers and mentors get confused, make mistakes, and think things through.
 
From afar, I tend to look at colleagues and assume that they are more knowledgeable than I am, or at least much quicker – see how many things they know that I don’t!  Of course, the fact that everyone around me knows things I don’t ought to suggest to me that the converse might be true as well, but it was well into my own graduate training before this really began to sink in.  I observed the people around me in seminars and colloquia doing the things that people do in talks – following closely or falling asleep, making connections or getting confused, and usually struggling a bit to digest topics outside of their everyday routine.  And I talked to people after lectures who thought it was great or terrible, watched people give me confused looks when I talked about my own area, and generally got to build mental models of the people around me.  What do they know?  What confuses them?  Understanding that everyone else spent a lot of time being confused, too, helped me a lot at the beginning when I was trying to figure out how on earth everyone else seemed to know so much more than I did.  And later on, when I got over that feeling (mostly – I still relapse regularly), it helped me be a more empathetic teacher and speaker than I was when I began.
 
This year, you don’t get to watch people fall asleep in front of you in seminars.  You don’t get to watch your friends look totally baffled in lecture.  You don’t get to watch your students get that “aha!” expression that suggests they had a moment of insight.  But you should realize: all those things are still happening.  If you don’t get it, you’re probably not alone.  If you have a question, you’re probably not alone.  You are not imposters.  You belong here.  You are all students, and getting confused (and then unconfused) as you learn is a big part of your job.  If you’re not getting everything in your classes and seminars but are gradually getting more over time as you keep showing up and working at it, you’re making progress.
 
