---
date: 2021-05-14
---

Some wag once quipped that a PhD is about saying more and more regarding less and less until one is able to say absolutely everything about nothing at all.  But I’ve always held the ideal of a T-shaped applied math grad student: someone who goes deep in some specific area, but also becomes technically broad.  The summer is often a fantastic time to pursue both of these goals, whether by making progress on a research thread that got stalled during the semester or opening a textbook for a subject you always wanted to learn more about.  I’m personally looking forward to doing both of these things this summer, and hope you are as well.

More broadly: I am looking forward to the summer in particular as a chance to step back and remember how to play!  Partly that is going biking, tossing a frisbee, going out on a kayak, or maybe playing a video game.  But I also mean playing at work: writing a bit of clever code, understanding a proof, digging into a computation, setting up a little experiment.  A PhD is a long commitment, and a lot of it is hard even in the best of times – we all get paper rejections, have lectures that go awry, get totally lost in classes and colloquia, and find critical errors in our proofs and programs.  But it can also be a tremendous playground, and summer is a great time to remember that.

This summer, I wish for you what I wish for myself this time every year, and this year even more so: a break, a chance to decompress, a chance to play, and a chance to deepen and broaden your knowledge.  And when the summer is done, I look forward to welcoming you all back to the CAM space!

