---
date: 2022-08-26
---

I get asked very specific technical questions all the time.  My response to the
vast majority of these fall into one of three pots:
 
1. That’s an interesting question, here’s a book or paper that addresses what you’re looking for.  
2. That’s an interesting question, I think it’s an open research question.  
3. That’s an interesting question, but can you back up and tell me why you are asking that question?
 
All three types of questions are interesting.  Maybe I get asked a lot of
uninteresting questions, too, but I forget them quickly – after all, if they
weren’t very interesting, there’s not much reason I would remember after
answering.  But of the three cases, the third type of question is often the
most interesting, precisely because it’s where I get the most chance to learn
something, and the best chance of really helping.  After all, the people who
come to ask me questions are usually pretty smart and technically skilled
themselves – if they don’t have an answer to the exact question they are
asking, there’s a pretty good chance that I won’t either.  But if they are
stuck, sometimes it’s because they took a hard fork in the road several steps
ago, and there is an easier way to get to the thing that they *really* care
about.
 
It's exciting to figure out answers to questions.  But maybe it’s even more
exciting to figure out the right question that is simultaneously answerable and
moves you toward an interesting goal.  So while I hope all of you have good
luck this semester in getting your theorems proved and your computations to
converge – but I also hope you have the chance to spend as much time backing up
and inspecting your questions as you do answering them.
 
