---
date: 2022-05-27
---

Here I sit, with draft graduation remarks on a notepad before me.  And
on my screen, next to this window, is a mail from the Graduate School
with guidance on leading during trauma.  I celebrate the conclusion of
another academic year, the successes of our students, good news and
recent victories for myself and my loved ones.  I mourn shooting after
shooting, a million lives lost to COVID, a world in turmoil and at
war.  I feel I should say something about it all, but the whole of it
seems too much to deal with directly, and metaphors are not much
better.  The glass is half full, and it’s half empty, but mostly there
is too much glass and water and air.  I endure.  But until I’ve
recovered some more, I can’t even seem to celebrate or rage against
the world properly.  I just get exhausted.
 
And so, with too tenuous a grasp on the world as a whole to try to
figure out any over-arching wisdom, I return to the basics that I’ve
written before.  You are your sister’s keeper, and your brother’s.  We
are social creatures, and we are stronger in community than we are
alone.  We build that community when we show up for each other,
whether to celebrate or to mourn or simply to share a cup of coffee
and a whiteboard of math.  As we celebrate graduates going out into
the world and new students arriving with fresh ideas and perspectives,
we build and rebuild that community anew.
 
Our goal as academics is to have an impact on our intellectual
community and on the broader world beyond.  That impact can take many
forms, and there are as many approaches to impact as there are people.
For my own part, I have always sought impact on the world by reading
widely, bringing together tools and problems from wherever I come
across them, and connecting ideas across areas.  I never fully figured
out to be when I grew up, and I still don’t pretend I really know what
I’m doing.  But I know that I like the play of mathematics, the design
challenges of engineering, and particularly the conversations that
help me learn the languages of other areas of science.  I try to have
an impact by solving interesting problems myself, and by teaching
students how I think about problems.  And, though I am still mystified
by humanity as often as not, I like the challenge of trying to figure
out how to design an environment where humans can thrive – maybe
through my scientific work, maybe by helping build or advocate for
better processes.
 
My path is just one path, and there are many others.  You will all
have your own successes and failures as you walk your own paths.  But
I believe many of you share with me a broad curiosity about the world
around us, not only in the “big issues” of the day that jostle us all
for good and ill, but also in the details of how and why the world
works the way it does, and maybe how it can be engineered to work
better for all of us humans.  And I hope you will all keep thinking on
how to craft your impact on the scientific world and on the community
around you to be as positive as possible.
 
I wish you all a thoughtful, restful, and restorative summer.  With
any luck, this will be the last edition of Friday notes until August –
I need a break, too!  But I will be around, by email even when not in
person, and you should reach out to me if you need anything (or if you
just want to talk). 
