---
date: 2022-11-04
---

I wanted to write this week, but just a simple sermon.
 
Today was a celebration of the life of Juris Hartmanis, the founder of the
Cornell Computer Science department.  Juris was a brilliant scientist, winner
of the Turing award for his work on computational complexity, and one of the
figures who defined the field.  And all of these things were mentioned over the
course of today.  But what people dwelt on was not his brilliance, but his
kindness, sympathy, integrity; his ability to build a collegial and
collaborative culture; his mentoring to those around him.  I started after
Juris’s retirement, and still my memory of my first days at Cornell involves
his call of “lunch!” down the halls, the vowel stretched out by his Latvian
accent.
 
What Juris understood, and taught to those around him, is that though there is
value in brilliant ideas, there is even greater value in building a department
and a culture that allows everyone to live up to their brilliance, not only
independently, but also together.  It is one of the things I have always valued
about my department, and it is also something that I really value about CAM.
 
At the end of the semester when things get crazy, it’s easy to center yourself
and your own trials and tribulations.  But I look around and see all of you as
people who are kind and brilliant, from whom I can learn and with whom I can
collaborate.  That is how I see the culture that you are building and living
in.  I hope you experience it that way, too.

