---
date: 2022-03-04
---

When I took over as CAM director, Cornell was reconfiguring policies
on the fly almost daily, and we weren’t able to see much of each other
because of the pandemic.  I started writing “Friday notes” both to
make sure that you were able to keep up with the local changes that
affected you and to try to provide some measure of support when
everything was crazy and everyone was feeling isolated.
 
We’ve had a few weeks now with Cornell operating almost as normal, and
little in the way of new policies you need to know about.  And I think
we are less universally isolated now.  I was glad to see many of you
at today’s colloquium and at the refreshments after, and I hope you
are looking forward to meeting with some of the admitted students next
week.
 
At the same time, the world does not seem to be getting less crazy.
 
After last Thursday, I struggled to say something in this space that
would be at all helpful.  I failed, and so I chose not to send a
Friday email.  But I have been thinking about it this week, and have
at least a one thought to share.  It is an old thought, and not one
that I came up with, but it is timely:
 
> The chief task in life is simply this: to identify and separate matters so that I can say clearly to myself which are externals not under my control, and which have to do with the choices I actually control. – Epictetus
 
In the pandemic, we have had only a little personal control, though we
do our bit by getting vaccinated, keeping our mask up, and following
public health guidelines.  None of us have even this little lever of
influence over what is happening in Ukraine and Russia.  Epictetus
lived well before anyone invented the term “doomscrolling,” but he and
the other ancient Stoics would surely have recognized the phenomenon,
and recognized it as both very human and as counterproductive.  Where
we do have control is in our own environments: how we tend to the
things about us that are also important, and how we support each
other.  That is where I at least try to focus my own energy and
effort, though I don’t always succeed.
 
A second thought is one I’ve written before: you are each others’
keepers.  You are adult humans who have seen ample examples of people
acting terribly and of people showing kindness and compassion.  Most
of us manage both over time.  But to the extent that we can find
creative ways to be kind and compassionate to each other, we usually
are able to make at least one part of the world a little better.  And
I think that is worth doing.

