---
date: 2022-08-19
---

Earlier this week, one of the baristas at Gimme told me “you have some
of the nicest and friendliest students in your program!”  It’s always
nice to hear things like this, and one of the great joys of being CAM
director is that comments like this aren’t rare.  The Cornell style of
applied math has always favored good mathematics and good applications
both, and the structure of the graduate field encourages this type of
work.  But bringing together good math and good applications usually
means bringing together people from different technical backgrounds in
conversation, and that attracts students and faculty who are willing
to engage in such conversations -- and encourages them to build their
skills in talking across areas.  And I tend to think that this is part
of the reason why I get such nice comments about how friendly you are
as people and how effective you are as teachers and collaborators from
across the university.
 
Of course, part of the challenge of being in an inherently
interdisciplinary field is that you’ll likely spend a lot of time
trying to understand someone who seems to be speaking a completely
different language.  I always figured that this means a big part of an
applied math PhD involves learning to be comfortable with feeling a
bit lost, and growing to feel secure in your ability to learn what on
earth someone is talking about if you only listen, work at it, and
keep coming back with questions.  So the moral of my first sermon of
the new academic year is: as you make your way through the PhD and
grow in expertise, I hope you also keep growing in your ability to be
a beginner.  Be curious as you are confused, keep asking questions and
trying to understand, and you’ll learn a lot of cool things about the
world – and, with luck, make some friends along the way.
