---
date: 2023-10-20
---

Because it is mid-semester, a short sermon in two parts.
 
Part 1:
 
We are in the middle of the semester now, and the chances are that this is starting to stress out the people around you even if you are not yourself particularly stressed by it.  We are also in the part of the year where the days get shorter, and people with any inclination toward seasonal affective disorder start feeling it.  And, once again, the news is heartbreaking and infuriating all at once.
 
There are many things that you cannot control.  But you do have some control over your diet, exercise, sleep habits, and social interactions.  Take care of yourself.  It won’t make any of the external problems go away, but it will maybe make you more able to deal with them with equanimity.  And watch out for each other, too.  You are indeed each other’s keepers – that is part of what it means to be in a community.  If you see someone around you struggling, don’t be afraid to reach out.  And this time of year, if you pay attention when you look around, you will probably find that there are people around you who are struggling.
 
Part 2:
 
You’ve likely heard the Einstein quote: “If we knew what it is we were doing, it would not be called research.  Would it?”  There are jobs where people basically know what they need to know moment by moment – being a researcher is not one of them.  When you get started, you at least have structure for learning what you need to know to get started in an area, but at some point you will be thrown into the deep end and asked to figure out what is going on for yourself.  And it’s hard!  But whether it is in a talk or in your own work, feeling like you are kind of lost but know where to read next, or know what to try to prove next, or know who to ask next – that’s normal, and probably a sign that you’re on a promising path.  Put one foot in front of another, keep learning more, and sometimes you’ll get to something pretty interesting.
 
