---
date: 2023-04-14
---

Imposter syndrome is the feeling that people perceive you as having more expertise than you actually have (coupled with the fear that they are going to figure it out).  A friend of mine in graduate school summarized this succinctly as “help, help, I’m a horrible fraud!”  And then there is the Dunning-Kruger effect, where people are too incompetent to recognize their own incompetence.  And there is plenty of uncomfortable territory in the middle!  This is part of the joy not just of graduate school, but of being human.
 
One thing I have figured out for myself over time is that I am much less likely to mis-estimate my own knowledge in either direction if I think in terms of very concrete things.  Do I know how to state this theorem?  How to prove it?  Can I prove it in front of a class full of students after a bad night of sleep?  Have I successfully implemented this algorithm, tuned it, used it in anger on a problem that matters to me?  It’s easier for me to answer those questions “yes” than it is for me to answer “am I competent in X” where X is some broad topic – and when the answer is “no,” it’s easier for me to figure out the next steps to change that situation, should I care to do so.
 
If you are blessed with the ability to do clear-eyed self-evaluation of your knowledge and skills, more power to you.  If, however, you are muddling along with me and are prone to sometimes think “help, help, I’m a horrible fraud!” (or worry that maybe you ought to be thinking that about something that you think you know), I encourage the exercise of thinking on what you think you should know how to do, and how to get yourself from where you are to where you want to be.  That may mean going back and spending some time on things that you think your peers learned as undergraduates (note: they likely did not), or it may mean starting on that paper draft and honestly marking some places as “to be figured out,” or it may mean figuring out a super-concrete example for your abstract theorem or trying to figure out how to break the code you just wrote.  Maybe there is someone out there who can sit down, think deep thoughts, and periodically blurt out brilliance – but for the rest of us, the road to knowing things involves a lot of hard work plotting the way and figuring things out step-by-step.
 
