---
date: 2023-11-04
---

It was not a great week.  PD was my undergrad advisee.  These days, I tell my advisees how to get in touch with me, but I don’t chase them down if they never do so, and he never did.  Maybe I wish I’d made more effort to do so in this case, but maybe this is a case of hindsight being 20/20.  The whole saga makes me sad and upset, and I think it’s probably a good thing that central decided everyone was on edge enough that we should take a three-day weekend to try to reset.
 
As for the backdrop of the war that had so many folks angry and on edge even before Dai started with death threats – I have a hard time finding anything better to say than a line from MASH.  Late in the series, Hawkeye Pierce (played by Alan Alda) objects to the characterization that “war is hell” by retorting that war is war, hell is hell, and of the two of them war is worse because:
 
“There are no innocent bystanders in Hell, but war is chock full of them – little kids, cripples, old ladies. In fact, except for a few of the brass, almost everybody involved is an innocent bystander.”
 
A lot of folks around campus are processing.  Phil forwarded the information about the support groups and activities to you earlier, if you happen to need to process with other people.  And if you don’t, that’s fine as well.  Just keep an eye out for each other, OK?  I keep writing emails where I say “you are each other’s keepers” for a reason.
 
And as for keeping yourself, which is also important, I come back to the start of this message.  Get enough sleep, eat well, get some exercise, get sunlight when you can.  And consider another quote, this one from the philosopher Epictetus:
 
“Happiness and freedom begin with a clear understanding of one principle.  Some things are within your control.  And some things are not.”
 
So start with the things you know how to control – which is mostly you and your local environment.  At least, that’s mostly what I know how to influence with any effect.
 
