---
date: 2024-12-06
---

I took over as director of CAM on July 1, 2020.  A few of you are still around
from that time, though many have graduated.  Those of you who were here may
remember the 15-minute Zoom holiday party (in which I was shaved completely
bald and covered with baby rabbits).  I’m glad we are past that and can have a
normal gathering this year.  Of course, you all remember how strange COVID made
things, whether you were at Cornell or not, and surely have your own peculiar
memories from that time.
 
I started writing Friday notes (and sermons) almost immediately on taking over
as CAM director.  I had a couple reasons for doing this.  First, there was an
absolute flood of email coming from central at the time as we all tried to keep
up with the combination of changes related to the pandemic, whether at the
Cornell, state, or federal level.  I figured everyone might appreciate a
curated digest.  Second, I remembered how much I appreciated getting “sermon”
emails from the director of the honors program at Maryland when I was an
undergraduate, and figured that this was a time when a weekly pep talk would
not go awry.  And third, I’d just spent a year (during and before the pandemic)
watching leaders around Cornell communicate during various sorts of crises, and
was struck by how differently those communications were received by groups who
were already in regular communication and those who felt like they mostly got
messages when something was going wrong.  And I’d decided that I wanted to do
what I could to make sure you all are talking to me enough when things are
going right so that you understand me – and maybe trust where I’m coming from –
if we have to talk when something is going wrong.  Also, I like talking with
you all about non-emergency things – you are interesting people!
 
Well, we aren’t getting such a flood of policy email anymore, though some
reminder emails still seems useful from time to time.  But some of the
difficulties of graduate school are constant, and we’re still in eventful
times.  So I will keep sending these sermons, and I hope you will come and
knock on my door sometimes  The "This Book is Literally Just Pictures of Cute
Animals That Will Make You Feel Better" book is son my desk if you need it, and
I’m usually happy to share a cup of tea.  And as we get to the finish line,
remember that the world is more manageable with proper food, rest, exercise,
and social interaction.
 
