---
date: 2024-03-29
---

This week I also sent in my contribution to the Graduate School’s “Faculty Who
Failed” series, and while it will appear in a couple weeks on their web page /
mailing, I figured you might appreciate seeing it earlier (and also: I know not
all of you religiously read everything the Graduate School sends you!).  You
may also be amused by the picture of me from around that time in Graduate
School attached to the bottom of the message.
 
I hope you all enjoy your spring break week.  Looking forward to seeing you all
again more regularly after mid-June!

---

*Can you describe a time you felt like you failed in graduate school? This could
be a time when an experiment didn’t work out, you considered leaving (or did
leave) your program, etc.*
 
As a student in the Berkeley CS PhD program, I had to take a preliminary exam
in my area (numerical methods).  The format varied by area, but for me it was
an oral examination by two professors in the area.  Though I thought I was
well-prepared at the outset, I started to struggle in the first few minutes.
The exam lasted for three hours, and I was completely incoherent by the end.
It was a disappointment for both me and the professors; at the end of the exam,
one of them left with the parting words that “to pass an exam like this, you
don’t have to know everything, but you do need to know something.  Today you
haven’t shown you know anything!”  I was crushed.  I considered leaving the
program.  Fortunately, I decided not to make any decisions while I was feeling
so distraught.
 
*How did you bounce back from your perceived failure, or what got you through to
the other side?*
 
My advisor (who was one of the examiners) wrote an email to me afterward, and
was encouraging.  He explained that from his perspective, the problem was not
that I didn’t know how to address the questions they chose; it was that I
hadn’t fully internalized the material, so that I needed to think a bit to come
up with an answer, and I had trouble doing that under the pressure of an exam.
“You wanted to derive the answer,” he said, “and we wanted you to just know the
answer, and only explain the details if we asked.”  We worked together to come
up with a syllabus of material that I should know by heart, well enough to
answer questions about it quickly even while I was feeling under pressure.  I
spent a lot of time studying, and passed when I re-took the exam the following
semester.  It took three hours the second time, too, but we were all enjoying
the process a lot more!
 
*What lessons did you learn from this experience?*
 
Other than learning a lot about numerical methods, I learned three big things
from this experience:
 
1.  My advisor was right: I knew the material well enough to get good
    grades on the written exams in my classes, but not well enough to “just know
    the answer.”  Figuring out the difference between these two types of knowing
    had a huge impact on how I treated graduate school (and the rest of my research
    career).  
2.  When someone comments on your poor performance, they might be
    commenting just on one poor performance and not on what they think of your
    overall ability to perform well in the future.  I heard “today you haven’t
    shown you know anything,” but it might have been more accurate to hear “today
    you haven’t shown you know anything.”  That professor became one of my valued
    mentors and advocates, and has given every sign that he is happy with how I
    turned out – even if he (accurately) panned that first prelim attempt.  
3.  It’s important to give honest feedback to students, but it’s also important to
    work hard to make sure they understand the feedback beyond a first emotional
    reaction.  Immediately after the exam, my only reaction was the emotional
    realization that I had failed.  My advisor’s email made all the difference in
    the world not only because he helped me understand how I had failed so that I
    could succeed the next time, but also because of his kindness and
    encouragement.
 
*How did you use this experience to become better at what you do?*
 
At the surface level, studying for my second attempt at the prelim made me a
lot better at numerical analysis!  It was also good preparation for many
aspects of research where a well-practiced facility with the material – “just
knowing” the basics – meant that I could focus on the really new parts when
understanding papers and talks or engaging in research conversations with
peers.  It was also good preparation for teaching, particularly during the
semesters when we had new babies at home and the concept of “being able to do
it in your sleep” took on new meaning!
 
*What advice do you have for current graduate students who might be struggling
or in a comparable situation?*
 
To fail is not the same as being a failure.  You are not just your failures,
whether real or perceived, and what matters after a failure is what you learn
and what you do next.  When you feel like “I’m a failure” rather than
acknowledging “I failed in this situation,” it is probably a good idea to do
step away for a bit and let your emotions die down so that you can see an
opportunity to learn (and to do better next time!).
 
*Please let me know if you have an image you prefer we use to accompany the
spotlight. If you happen to have an image of yourself from graduate school we
can include, even better.*
 
I don’t have a lot of high-resolution images from graduate school, but here is
the one that graced my web page around that time!

![Picture of David as a graduate student at Berkeley](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~bindel/pic/david-cal.jpg)
