---
date: 2024-08-09
---

Graduate students are fully-fledged human adults.  This generally means dealing
with taxes, rent, drivers licenses, and the general bureaucracy of life;
managing your sleep and exercise and keeping yourself fed; finding doctors and
dentists as appropriate; and navigating the full array of human relationships.
Alas, for most of us (graduate students or otherwise), being an adult human
also means regularly fumbling one thing or another, because we’re still
figuring out what we’re doing.  I expect that I will continue to make lots of
mistakes in adulting until the day I die.  Fortunately, most mistakes are not
fatal, so I have high hopes that day remains some ways off.

While we’re all generally responsible for figuring out our stuff, we also all
live in a social fabric of people who can help.  You will sometimes need a
friend, a mentor, a colleague, or the help of various sorts of professionals.
You will also sometimes be those things to other people.  Having a variety of
such connections is important to getting along in life – my friends and
colleagues are all wonderful, but I’d be in trouble if I also didn’t have a
plumber that I can call sometimes.

Within the scope of your life as a graduate student (and your professional life
beyond), you will have plenty of reasons to ask for help and advice.  You will
need a network of mentors and collaborators to whom you can address technical
questions.  You also need mentors and collaborators who can write
recommendations for you.  You will want course advice, you will need signatures
on forms, and sometimes you may need to talk to someone about how you’re
thinking about your career.  Being an adult doesn’t mean not wanting or needing
these things.  It just means that you have some role in seeking out the people
you want and need in your life, and figuring out what advice it makes sense to
take or discard in the process of building the career that you want to have.

So: talk to your fellow CAMsters.  Talk to graduate students outside CAM.  Talk
to your neighbors.  Talk to friends outside graduate school.  Talk to your
professors for classes, to your committee members, to me and Phil.  And know
how to get hold of a dentist, someone who can fix the plumbing, and someone who
can water your plants when you're away.  You get to steer your own life – but
none of us are here on our own.

