---
date: 2024-08-21
---

The sermon this week is a two-for-one in honor of the start of the semester.
 
First, for the first-year students: Graduate school is challenging, and there
are lots of moving pieces.  But you’ve got this!  Take things one step at a
time: your big tasks for this week are to get oriented, figure out where the
grocery store is, look up what classes might be interesting, have initial
meetings around TA assignments, and maybe meet some friends and have some fun.
You will want to have an advisor by the end of your first year, and summer
plans before the summer, and a research direction before you take your A exam
in a couple years… but we do not expect you to figure this all out in the week
before classes start.  Know that all of us – me, the field, and your fellow CAM
students – want you to succeed, and we’re not going to knowingly put you in a
bad spot.
 
Second, a thought for all of you: Something mostly non-CAM related happened in
the past couple weeks that reminded me of a lesson that I had to learn
repeatedly over the past couple years while I was an associate dean – we’re in
a remarkably email-driven era (this message is an example!), but for the
important stuff, conversation beats email almost every time.  Humans
communicate a lot without words: through tone, through hesitations, through
body language.  That nuance is all lost in email.  Email is great if you want
to document a decision, broadcast information, or deal with a logistical issue
– but if you want to solve a problem or make a friend, it is hard to beat a
face-to-face chat.  And if you have concerns where I’m the right person to talk
to, please *do* take the time to come by and chat with me – life’s busy for all
of us, but it is usually easier to solve problems early than to let them
fester.
