---
date: 2024-11-08
---

I started writing my “Friday notes” with sermons when I took over as CAM
director in 2020.  I went back this week to look at the notes from around this
time in 2020-2023, and… well, it was mostly pretty bleak, except for in 2022
when we had just had a celebration of the life of Juris Hartmanis.  That was
sad, and I still miss Juris – but he did have a life worth celebrating.

I control little about events in the world, but I can choose how I approach
them.  And this year, as at this time in years past, I choose optimism.  I can
take care of those around me, and try to make my own corner of the world a
better place.

If you don’t feel optimistic yourself right now, I will not gainsay you.  But
I will observe that it’s harder to face the world if you yourself are out of
balance.  Remember that we are headed into the period of the year with short
days.  This affects most of us, but will affect some of you more than others.
Spend some time outside if you’re able, particularly in the morning.  Sun
lamps help as well.  More generally, this is a time of year that it’s easy to
fall into poor patterns of sleep, diet, and exercise.  Keep an eye on those
things, and make sure you take some time for social connections as well.  It’s
not going to make the world any better, but it will make it easier for you to
deal with it.

And though I have written it many times since 2020,  it’s a theme that bears
repeating you are each others’ keepers.  If you think you see someone around
you suffering, do reach out.

