---
date: 2025-03-14
---

I enjoyed talking to the prospective students today.  And I really enjoyed
Eva’s colloquium – I think the stuff she does is really cool, and she also
works hard to make her talks accessible.  After the colloquium and the
post-colloquium social today, I walked home, heading across Libe slope.  People
were out on the slope in force, hanging out on the grass and talking, sometimes
just watching the world go past.  Spring is here, bringing with it a little
more sunlight, and some more greenery and life.  When I got home, my neighbors
invited us over, and we spent some time eating and talking about goings-on of
the week.  And now I’m dealing with some final email before turning in.
Tomorrow, I’m looking forward to preparing for my upcoming travel, and I’m also
looking forward to spending a couple hours just working on a technical thing
that has caught my attention.  On Sunday, I will travel to Princeton, and then
I’ll have a week ahead of me to geek out with academic friends about
stellarators and fusion energy.
 
The current political chaos and economic uncertainty are largely beyond my
control.  When there are things I can do, I will do them.  Otherwise, I will
bear it and carry on.  But whatever else may be happening, there are many
things in which I can choose to find happiness and satisfaction.  The world is
not under my control, but my reactions to it can be.  We do what we can do, and
ideally take pride and satisfaction in it.  We just need enough sleep, food,
exercise, and social interaction to be well equipped.
 
I wish for you a weekend of proper sleep, good meals, some time to move, and
some time with friends.
