---
date: 2025-03-21
---

Research is fun partly because you get to figure things out, and partly because
you get to share the process (and the results) with others.  As we go through
being students and beyond, our lives intersect with all these overlapping
academic communities: campus communities, alumni communities, classroom
communities, small and large research communities.  Indeed, it’s hard to frame
what it means to be in an academic environment without the context of these
communities.  So what makes a successful community, and how do we foster such
communities?
 
I’ve been thinking about this a lot recently for various reasons.  I don’t have
a complete answer, but I think there are some clear common elements.  Research
communities need new people and new ideas to succeed – it’s hard to succeed
with intellectual isolationism, though a few people surely give it a go!  They
require mutual development of a common language and some common problems, and
possibly some common techniques.  They require the support and service of the
members of the community.  Communities provide social infrastructure: many good
things happen in the world only because someone is quietly working in the
background to provide the environment where they can happen, and that is the
very heart of what “service to the community” means.
 
I hope that you find CAM to be a congenial community, and one that fosters your
success.  I also hope that you also sometimes take some time away from the
questions of your research, and ask the meta-questions of how your community
research shapes you, and what you can do to move your research community – and
other communities, including CAM – in the directions that you think they should
go.
 
