---
date: 2025-11-21
---

We’re almost at the end of another semester, and rapidly approaching the
end of 2025.  How does every year seem to get shorter and longer at the
same time?
 
The end-of-semester rush is maybe a good time to remind you that
graduate school is not a sprint, but a marathon.  And the way you do big
things is by working on them consistently, a bit at a time, day after
day.  That’s true for reading, and for writing.  It’s also true for
developing teaching materials, preparing reviews, and all the other
aspects of being an academic professional.  And it is certainly true for
learning and developing ideas.  You think; you make some progress; you
get stuck; you sleep for a bit; and the next day you’ll be unstuck and
maybe ready for some more progress.  Ideally, you pop up from time to
time to think strategically: are you making time for the things that are
important right now?  Are there things that you need to spend less time
on, or things that should take more time?  And sometimes the answer will
be "yes," and you’ll adjust and keep going.
 
Of course, it’s easier to keep a sense of balance about these things
when there’s not a lot of urgency and pressure.  And none of us are at
our most balanced when we’re sick, tired, hungry, or lonely.  As a
reminder as we approach the winter solstice, seasonal affective order
and vitamin D deficiency are real things, and we’re far enough north
that they’re going to affect some of you when the days are short.  And
even for those with no use for a sun lamp, this time of year can have
lots of other stressors.  So take care of yourselves, and take care of
those around you – I’ve said before and I’ll say again, you are each
other’s keepers.  Make sure that you are getting the food, exercise,
social activity, and sleep that you need to be effective.  And after you
sleep, and awaken refreshed, I hope you’ll be happy to find yourself
unstuck from whatever puzzled you, and able to make another step, and
another step, and another step on your academic road.
