---
date: 2025-10-31
---

For the rare Halloween Friday, a quote seems appropriate: “We are what we
pretend to be, so we must be careful about what we pretend to be.” ― Kurt
Vonnegut,  Mother Night.
 
Mother Night was not a happy book, and are all sorts of reasons this
63-year-old quote feels apropos to Oct 31, 2025.  So I actually had this
quote come to mind more than once this week.  But the incident that made me
think about putting it into this email was, I think, an optimistic one.
 
Most of us get to feel like imposters from time to time, like we are
pretending to be all the things we aspire to.  In many cases, there is no
pretense about the matter, only the feeling of pretense.  You *are*
mathematicians, academics, teachers, researchers.  You are these things
because of what you are doing right now – math, study, teaching, research.
In some cases, there is no pretense, but there is a choice of interpretation
and selection: most times have a mix of high and low points, and the
difference between gratitude for our blessings and curses for our
misfortunes is a matter of where we have put our attention.  And in some
cases, we’re working toward something but not there yet.  When we try to do
hard things, fail, and try again, that is not a sign that we were ever
pretending; rather, it’s a sign that we are tackling problems worthy of
attack.  Shaping the story of who we want to be, who we will try to be,
maybe who we can be – even if we are not there yet – does not need to be a
pretense, but can be a part of how we grow and move forward.

