---
date: 2025-05-16
---

In the spirit of the end of the academic year, I figured I’d make today’s
sermon a summary of advice given to all of you this year.  Not that there’s an
exam, but maybe it’ll be useful:

- You need food, sleep, exercise, and social interaction.  Keeping these
  things in order won’t deal with all your problems, but it will make sure
  you’re best positioned to do what you need to do.
- You don’t control the world.  You do control how you react to the world.  Do
  what you can, where you can.
- Try not to make big decisions when you are hungry, angry, lonely, or tired
  (HALT).
- You are in graduate school to learn how to advance the research frontier in
  applied mathematics.  You are not here to learn, not because we thought you
  should know everything coming in (or even going out!).
- Your intellectual work requires focus and self-control.  Much of the modern
  world fights against those things.  Know when it’s time to put away the
  phone and get out a book or a pad of paper.
- It’s better to fix potential problems early than to let them grow into
  catastrophes.
- Learn from the past.  And plan for the future, even when you know the plans
  may have to change.
- Social fabric is important.  Talk to people.  Ask for help when you need it,
  prop your fellows up when they need it.  Email is not an adequate substitute
  for a conversation, particularly on anything sensitive.
- You are each other’s keepers.  If you see someone around you suffering,
  reach out.
- We lift each other up.  Learn to do it for others, and learn to be glad when
  others do it for you.
 
