---
date: 2025-02-07
---

Some of you may know about HALT already – I believe this might’ve started in
Alcoholics Anonymous, but the acronym escaped into the wild long enough ago
that I’m not positive of the source.  it’s a checklist for checking in with
yourself, a reminder that we don’t make our best decisions when we are
Hungry, Angry, Lonely, or Tired.  Or, if we go with advice from my mom, it’s
that you need food, water, exercise, sleep, and social interaction in order
to function effectively over any extended period of time.  Or, if we go with
my own parenting experience: it was annoying as anything when (years ago),
our younger kid would start yelling “Hungry! Thirsty! Hungry! Thirsty!” over
and over again – but it at least was clear what needed to be done.
 
Please don’t burst into my office yelling “Hungry! Thirsty! Hungry! Thirsty!”
But I’ll keep periodically reminding you that you need to regularly attend to
basic bodily and social needs for as long as I keep running into evidence
that you could use the reminders.
 
On a more lofty note: Six years ago, Cornell adopted a set of six [Core Values](https://www.cornell.edu/about/values.cfm):
 
- Purposeful discovery
- Free and open inquiry and expression
- A community of belonging
- Exploration across boundaries
- Changing lives through public engagement
- Respect for the natural environment
 
I’ve been thinking about these a lot recently, partly from watching web pages
of this sort disappear from other places, which I think is sad.  It’s easy to
be cynical about these types of statements, or to say that they are nothing
but pretense.  Even if they were pretense, I think it’s worth remembering the
Vonnegut quote: “We are what we pretend to be; therefore, we should be
careful what we pretend to be.”  But on the whole, I think it’s not just
pretense, but a good reflection of what I have seen in the faculty, students,
and administrators at Cornell.  It’s certainly a worthwhile set of goals to
strive for.

