---
date: 2025-02-28
---

In two weeks, we will greet a new group of prospective CAM students at visit
day.  We’re hoping to get 6-8 of them, and I’m excited about the people we
admitted!  I hope you are also excited, as our current CAM students have always
been our best ambassadors.
 
Of course, we made our initial plans for the new class before the past few
weeks caused so much uncertainty around research funding.  The university as a
whole is regrouping right now, and there is a lot of concern about our finances
in general.  And I am personally nervous!  We’ve done the best we can to
prepare for contingencies, and I believe we are in many ways in a better
situation than many units in the university.  And we’ll do our damnedest to
make sure you are funded and in a place where you can get your work done.
 
We plan for the future for many reasons.  Plans inspire us; they help us figure
out next steps; and they help us figure out and prepare for future obstacles.
Of course, there are always contingencies that make it hard to plan.  In times
when there’s a lot of uncertainty, the list of possible contingencies seems to
explode, and it makes the process of planning feel particularly intimidating.
But even in uncertain times, a good plan can still inspire, and it can still
help us decide what to do next.
 
Maybe this is a long-winded way to say: steady on, my friends.  We have cool
stuff we want to do, and we’ll keep going after it.  And if times are
uncertain, we’ll meet them one day at a time.
 
