---
date: 2025-09-12
---

Twenty four years ago this week, I went into my office at Berkeley and heard
from my peers that there were planes crashing into New York and into the
Pentagon.  My dad had been commuting to the Pentagon sometimes for a project
around that time, so I spent the morning being freaked out at a personal level;
after establishing that he was OK, I spent the rest of the day being more
generally freaked out, along with everyone else around.
 
The subsequent days were a mess.  A fellow graduate student who had gone to
Mexico to get married was unable to re-enter the US for an extended periods.
Another (trained as a firefighter) took some leave time as they were deployed
to NYC to help with clean-up there.  The politics was tense, at best.  Before
long there were prisoners in Guantanamo, there was an invasion in Iraq, and
then a war in Afghanistan.
 
A little less than 17 years ago, I was a Courant Instructor at NYU thinking
about applying for jobs when the financial sector spectacularly exploded.  The
subprime mortgage crisis brought down Lehman Brothers, and an already iffy
economy – along with a perhaps-not-best job market – suddenly got much worse.
I signed an offer letter from Cornell in Dec 2008 with a start date of 2009.  I
was told afterward that they probably would have had to rescind the offer if
I’d thought for another week.  I came into a Cornell where there were – I
gather – some big austerity moves that had happened or were happening.  I
didn’t really have a point of reference, so took it in stride.
 
Five years ago, I was starting my first fall as CAM director.  We were in the
middle of a pandemic.  I was teaching parallel computing while my younger kid
sat in the background, and I had to run back and forth to help her get on Zoom
classes.  Everyone was going a little bit crazy.  We had a Gather.town space
for CAM that we used for socialization, and I tried to make sure that the
first-year students were getting some type of social support despite it all,
but it was a pretty miserable start to the term.
 
And now here we are, at the start of the first fall of my second term as CAM
director.  The political situation, both domestically and in the world, is not
fantastic for many of us right now.  And in many ways,  we’re seeing things
that are unprecedented in my life time, and are pretty scary.  And at the same
time… this is not my first rodeo.  And given that all of you lived through the
COVID years as well, it is not your first rodeo, either.  The human world has
these crazy spasms sometimes, and while they *are* going to get to us, it’s
also up to us to keep calm and carry on.  For all that is in the news, there is
also the work of learning and research and teaching in front of you; the beauty
of late summer and early fall in Ithaca outside and ahead of you; and the
community of scholars that make up a university surrounding you.  Remember to
appreciate these things.
