---
date: 2025-01-24
---

I’ve mostly started semesters with sermons that I hope might be a little
inspiring.  This semester may call for something different.
 
We have had an eventful period since I last wrote in December.  I know many of
you have friends and family around LA; my thoughts are with you, as they are
with my own friends out there.  Of course, LA is not the only place where this
can happen.  You may have seen that there was a fire in Ovid recently as well
(much smaller scope), and many of you will remember the Canadian wildfires last
year and the smoke that we got down here from it.  It’s a good reminder to
check your basic emergency preparedness (not just for fires, but for power
outages, storms, and other contingencies).  Sign up for Cornell alerts; make
sure you have information for emergency contacts; think about assembling an
emergency bag in case you need it; and (for things like power outages) remember
that it’s a good idea to have a couple days worth of potable drinking water and
non-perishable food items on hand.
 
It's flu season, and there are various things going around again.  When you’re
planning for contingencies, remember that one contingency is that you’re under
the weather and want a thermometer, an aspirin, and some hot tea.  Plan
accordingly – and if you’re sick, stay home!
 
I know many of you are also concerned with the rapid changes in US policy,
which can be disruptive even in the best case.  Here, too, I recommend keeping
calm, but planning ahead.  For those of you who are not US citizens, please
keep an eye on Cornell’s communications, and remember the [advice that Cornell
communicated in November](https://international.globallearning.cornell.edu/alerts/guidance-possible-immigration-changes-2025)
regarding extra paperwork that you might want to bring
along in case of international travel.  You all know where my office is if you
want to talk through any particular concerns, and for these types of things a
quick chat is probably more productive than an email thread.
 
Finally: we probably won’t have a lot more cold spells like this past week, but
winter in Ithaca can drag out a bit.  If you haven’t done so already, I
recommend investing in a warm code, hat, scarf, and a thermal underlayer!
 
