---
date: 2025-12-12
---

For those of you who came to the holiday party – thanks for making it a special
gathering, and apologies that you’ve mostly heard this before.  I did tell you
that I generally only have one sermon in me in any given week!  Anyhow, here’s
the written version of my remarks, without the ad-libbed bits.
 
...
 
This holiday party is the sixth one I’m attending as CAM director.  The first
one, in 2020, was on Zoom.  We took 15 minutes.  I was covered in baby bunnies.
It was a high point in a long year.
 
Almost none of you were here in 2020!  In fact, more than a third of you joined
in Fall 2024, and have never had a break from me sending you Friday sermons!
These sermons started partly to deal with the pandemic, but also because I
wanted you to hear from me regularly about positive things.  You are a
community.  What you do matters.  Consistency is key.  I’ll let you judge how
well the messages land, but you certainly do get the emails.
 
I’d like to think I’ve mostly avoided trouble by talking to you early and
often, though I’m sure that I still miss problems at times.  It helps that a
lot of you have taken classes I taught, and about a third of you have me on
your committees.  So I get to hear from you and to see you learning new things
and growing as scholars – and it’s one of the best things about being here.
Applied math at Cornell is a special community, and it has been for a long time
– longer than I’ve been here!  People come and go, and each new arrival adds
something interesting to the mix – and each graduate takes something of
Cornell’s way of doing applied math out into the world.
 
This was a tough year in several ways.  I guess next year might be tough, too.
But you all seem to be doing OK – and better than OK!  You give me a lot to
brag about.  And when the math department was reviewed this year, the external
committee said “CAM is a gem.”  I hear the same when we have colloquium
speakers talk to you; they often comment on what a lively, interesting,
inquisitive bunch you are.
 
So while I expect you’ll get some elements of this message in your inbox this
Friday, let me say it now aloud: I am proud of this community, of the cool work
you do and of the fine people you are.  You make me glad to be at Cornell.
 
Happy holidays, everyone.

