---
date: 2025-10-24
---

This one goes out in particular to the second-year students (which is
about a third of CAM right now!), though of course I hope it may be
useful to the rest of you, too.
 
In the first year, you’re looking around, getting used to the place, and
taking a lot of classes.  You need to find an advisor, and you’re
supposed to get started on research, but often that research involves a
“starter project” that a faculty member hands you.  You’re told that you
are going to become an independent researcher… but maybe that possibility
still feels more like a theoretical future than something that is
happening in the present.
 
For a lot of people, the second year of a PhD program represents a
(sometimes stressful) transition.  You’re still taking classes, but now
you’re involved in research with an advisor and maybe are starting to
think “what is the trajectory of my research going to look like”?  For
most, you haven’t quite hit that transition yet from thinking “how am I
going to find a good research question?” to “how am I going to decide
which of the many research questions on my plate I should work on?” – or
if you have hit that transition, the realization that there are many
things you *could* work on next is a little overwhelming, as you haven’t
figured out for yourself how to choose which of those things you *will*
work on next.
 
The second year is also, for some of you, the point at which you ask “do
I really want to do a PhD?”  This is a natural thing to think, even if
the answer is “absolutely” – most of us go into a PhD not really knowing
what we’re getting ourselves into, and by the second year you are
starting to have some sense of the parts of the process that you’re going
to love and the parts that maybe feel less wonderful.
 
The point of all this is: if you’re going through something like this
right now, you are in good company.  And you’ll get to the other side of
it.  You are on a journey through your PhD; and if you weren’t doing a
PhD, you would be learning to make your way through the world in some
other way!  Here, you have an opportunity to hone your mathematical
toolkit, to learn about applications, to actually do new research and to
participate in a community of scholars.  It’s not the only opportunity
you had (and probably not the most lucrative one!), but it is an
opportunity for you to learn.  And whether or not you ever have a highly
cited “home run” paper, even if you forget details of your classes and
lose touch with colleagues as the years go past, the experience of those
courses and relationships will remain with you as part of the shape of
your thinking going forward.  All of us are shaped by our experiences, in
ways that we can’t always anticipate.  And so we can all stand to ask,
when we have the opportunity, that common second-year question: “what am
I doing here, exactly?”  I only ask that you think about the question
thinking with hope about the ways that you can grow, and not with despair
that you still have growing yet to do.  After all, if we’re lucky, we all
get to keep growing in some way for all our lives; but it’s not every day
that circumstances push us to reflect on how we are growing, and if it’s
the direction we hoped for.
