---
date: 2026-03-06
---

For today’s sermon, let’s talk about AI, LLMs, and your research.
 
I have a lot of mixed feelings about the way that LLMs are being deployed and
commercialized right now.  There are a lot of claims that don’t seem to hold
water for me, and the economic model seems to involve a lot of wishful
thinking.  I’ve been through multiple bubbles that crashed in my life; this
feels like another one.
 
But with that aside, given where we are now: should you be learning to use AI
for your research?  Some of you are doing research on AI, and there I think the
answer is clear.  These are complicated systems relevant to the current moment,
and it makes sense for applied mathematicians to study them.  So of course, in
that case, treating AI systems as an object of study is great.
 
But what about using AI as part of your research process?  Here, I want to
suggest old advice for a new era, which is that you should own the tools of
your livelihood.  If you are trying to write performant, modular code, and you
think that is a skillset that you want to be able to employ later in life, you
probably want to do it yourself without assistance.  If you are figuring out
how some class of proof techniques works in a problem space where you’re doing
research, you probably should do it yourself and not ask an LLM.  If you are
writing a paper and believe – as I do – that writing is thinking, then you want
to force yourself to find an expression of *your* take on the problem without
interjecting a synthetic take from a language model.  This all is independent
of whether the LLM would be at all useful; the point is that you are trying to
make this knowledge your own, and the best way to do that is to force it
through your fingers.
 
My own feeling is that I’m blessed to have a life in which there’s not a lot of
busy work (or, at least, not a lot of busy work that I can’t automate by more
conventional non-AI approaches).  And for the non-busy work, getting help from
an AI would not help me in my true goals of learning how to do things myself
and effectively teaching others to do those things.
 
Your mileage may vary, of course.
